where's the best place to hide a dead
body
on page two of google because that's
where no one looks just think about it
when's the last time you did a search
and you went to page two of google hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
gonna break down how to climb google's
rankings from page 2 to page 1.
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
there are roughly two ways you can
improve your rankings if you're ranking
on page two of google search results
it's either by optimizing existing page
that ranks for the term you want to rank
for or creating a new one that's more
suited to that keyword now let's see how
you go about making the decision first
when do you optimize an existing page
well
if the keyword you want to rank for is
closely related to that topic of that
page that ranks for it then you'll be
able to edit that page in a way that
makes it more relevant to that keyword
let me give you an example
let's say i have a page on my website
that ranks for the keyword google
analytics right which is on their
analytics tools that helps you track
your website traffic
as a matter of fact i do rank for that
keyword on position 14 depending on the
search engine that you check which i
know it's google as google but every
country has different results
so what i'm gonna have to do is search
for this keyword on google and analyze
all the top 10 results
what am i going to be looking at well
what are the topics that those pages
approach that my page doesn't
are those content pieces longer than
mine or are they shorter do i need it in
other words write more content or
actually make it shorter and get to the
point quicker
is their content more captivating than i
am
what are the questions that people are
asking on websites like core and reddit
about google analytics or the topic that
you're ranking on page two of that i
could be answering in my content piece
remember quora tells you what's popular
based on people's votes and views and
reddit is similar that'll help
understand the issues and the pain
points that people have related to that
subject
does google have any people also ask
results for that keyword that i could be
getting more questions from
and i'll use this analysis to come up
with ideas for improvement for my page
that'll help increase the chance of me
ranking higher for that keyword
then i go in and edit my page to make it
better than any other content piece out
there
in the top 10.
here's another thing i do there's a tool
called click flow one of the most
easiest ways to get your page from page
two or your ranking from page two to
page one is actually not through
backlinks it's through click through
rate think of it this way if you did a
google search and another thousand
people did a google search or let's say
a million people did a google search for
the word cars
if everyone clicked on the second result
instead of the first result
what does that tell google
it tells google hey people prefer the
second result over the first result so
we should switch the rankings and put
number two number one and number one
number two it really is that simple
google's not going to be like hmm
well you don't have as many backlinks as
number one and even though everyone is
clicking on number two we're still going
to keep number two number two that's not
going to happen they're taking user
signals into account
so when you think about your titles how
can you massage your copy in your meta
description and titles to maximize click
through rate and the way you do that is
through testing title tags you look at
who's above you you look at the paid
advertising because that's based on
quality score so that'll give you ideas
or you can use click tools like click
flow and a b test your title tags and
when you do that it'll help you increase
your click-through rate which then also
pushes you up from page two to page one
now the second group is when do you
create a new page for a keyword
well first off if the keyword you're
ranking for isn't really related to the
topic of the page that ranks for it then
you need to create another page that
revolves around that keyword
let me give you example
let's have a page on my website that
ranks for buy instagram followers
let's say that page is titled how to
sell on instagram without spending a
dime
the topic of that page isn't related to
anything around buying instagram
followers and i know that's an extreme
example but this happens all the time
and this is something that i wouldn't
advise my clients or visitors to do
anyways you don't want to trick people
so instead of optimizing this page for a
keyword that's not really related to
that topic
i'm going to go ahead and create a new
page and maybe i'll call it should you
buy instagram followers
and i'm going to talk about why you
should not do it and in the long run how
that can hurt you
with the existing page that ranks for
i'm going to create an internal link
that points to the new content piece
so when i'm talking about selling on
instagram i may say hey if you need more
followers check out this post on buying
instagram followers as i go about
writing the content for this new page
i'm going to make sure i follow the same
steps and analyze the top 10 ranked
pages for that keyword to see how i can
offer better content than anyone else
who ranks for it
if you follow those tips you're going to
be better off and you're going to start
taking your rankings from page 2 to page
1. and if you're not even on page 2
don't worry use these tips and you'll
start showing up on page 5 6 4 3 2 and
eventually page one if you want my
company to do all this for you check out
my ad agency np digital if you enjoyed
the video like it share it tell people
about it thank you for watching and have
a lovely day